                          Program IMAGE_RESIZE
                            24 October 2004

image_resize [options]

This program copies an image from one file to another while changing its
size.  See the IMAGE_TYPES documentation file for a discussion of the
supported image file formats.  The command line options are:

  <input file name>

    When a command line option is encountered that does not start with a
    dash (-) it is assumed to be the input file name, if the input file
    name has not already been set.  This form of specifying the input file
    name is for convenience, and does not work when the name starts with a
    dash.  The -IN command line option works in all cases.  There is no
    default input file name.  It is an error if no input file name is
    supplied.

  <output file name>

    When a command line option is encountered that does not start with a
    dash (-) it is assumed to be the output file name, if the input file
    name has already been set.  This form of specifying the output file
    name is for convenience, and does not work when the name starts with a
    dash.  The -OUT command line option works in all cases.  The default
    output file name is the generic leafname (no directory path, no file
    type suffix) of the input file.

  -IN <input file name>

    Explicitly set the input file name.  See the IMAGE_TYPES documentation
    file for a discussion of image file naming conventions.  There is no
    default input file name.  It is an error if no input file name is
    supplied.

  -OUT <output file name>

    Explicitly set the output file name.  See the IMAGE_TYPES
    documentation file for a discussion of image file naming conventions.
    The image file format can be selected by using a file type suffix.
    See the IMAGE_TYPES documentation file for details.  The default
    output file name is the generic leafname (no directory path, no file
    type suffix) of the input file.

  -FIT x y

    Set the number of horizontal (X) and vertical (Y) pixels the output
    image must fit within.  The output image will have the specified
    number of pixels in one dimension, with the other depending on the
    aspect ratios of the fit size, the image, and the output pixels.  The
    -FIT command line option can be overridden by the -SIZE option, and is
    always overridden by the -SCALE option.  The default is -FIT 640 512.

  -PASP <pixel aspect ratio>

    Set the aspect ratio of the output pixels.  The value is a pixel's
    width divided by its height.  This value can be overridden by the
    -SIZE option, and is always overridden by the -SCALE option.  The
    default is -PASP 1 (square pixels).

  -SIZE x y

    Explicitly set the number of pixels in the output image in each
    dimension.  There must be at least one pixel along each dimension.

    If either value, but not both, is set to zero, then the number of
    pixels in that dimension will be adjusted to maintain the pixel
    apspect ratio as set by the -PASP command line option.  If both values
    are zero, then the -FIT command line option takes precedence.

    The default is -SIZE 0 0 (-FIT is in effect).

  -SCALE <scale factor>

    Explicitly set the image size scale factor to apply to the old image
    to make the new image.  The image and pixel aspect ratios are
    preserved, so this command line option overrides -FIT, -PASP, and
    -SIZE.  For example, -SCALE 1.5 applied to an image with 100 by 80
    pixels yeilds an image with 150 by 120 pixels. Note that the program
    IMAGE_FILTER is more efficient at shrinking an image by an integer
    scale factor than IMAGE_RESIZE, which works on arbitrary scale
    factors.  No fixed scale factor is applied by default.

  -SHRINK <shrink factor>

    This command line options is just like -SCALE, except that scaling is
    specified as a shrink factor instead of an enlargement factor.  The
    shrink factor is the reciprocal of the scale factor as would be
    supplied with the -SCALE command.  In other words, -SCALE .5 is
    equivalent to -SHRINK 2.  This command line option is for convenience,
    since it can sometimes be more intuitive than -SCALE.  No fixed scale
    factor is applied by default.

  -FILT -NFILT

    Enable (-FILT) or disable (-NFILT) smooth filtering.

    When smooth filtering is enabled, the input pixels are interpreted as
    point samples at their centers.  An output pixel's value is a weighted
    average of the input samples withing a small region around the output
    pixel.  Many input pixels may therefore be taken into account to
    produce each output pixel, especially at high shrink factors.  This
    produces the appearance of a smooth, as apposed to stair-stepped
    output image.  This causes anti-aliasing to happen when the image is
    shrunk.  Smooth filtering preserves the most information from the
    input image.

    When smooth filtering is disabled, the input pixels are interpreted as
    abutting rectangles of solid colors.  An output pixel's value is
    simply the value found at its center. Therefore the value of each
    output pixel comes from exactly one input pixel.  This process is
    sometimes called "pixel replication zoom" at high scale factors.
    -NFILT may be useful to enlarge an image but still show the individual
    original pixels, and for some special effects.  Filtering also
    requires much more computation, so -NFILT will be significantly faster
    than -FILT.

    Smooth filtering is enabled by default (-FILT).

  -COM <comment string>

    Add a comment to the image output file.  There may be any number of
    -COM command line options.  Note that the comment string must be
    enclosed in quoted ("") or apostrophies ('') if it contains any blanks
    or special characters.

    Image file comments can be viewed with the IMAGE_INFO program.

  -FTYPE <output file type>

    Explicitly set the output image file type.  See the IMAGE_TYPES
    documentation file for a list of the supported output image file
    types.  The -FTYPE argument is the image file type name, like "IMG",
    or "GIF".  The argument is case-insensitive, regardless of the file
    type suffix.  By default, the output image file type is derived from
    the output image file name if possible, else the IMG image file type
    is used.

  -FORM <format string>

    This allows additional configuration information to be passed to the
    output image file driver.  See the IMAGE_COPY program documentation
    file for a full description of the -FORM command line option.
