                           Program IMAGE_CROP
                             10 June 2005

image_crop [options]

Copy a rectangle of the input image to the output image. See the
IMAGE_TYPES documentation file for a discussion of the supported image
file formats.  The command line options are:

  <input file name>

    When a command line option is encountered that does not start with a
    dash (-) it is assumed to be the input file name, if the input file
    name has not already been set.  This form of specifying the input file
    name is for convenience, and does not work when the name starts with a
    dash.  The -IN command line option works in all cases.  There is no
    default input file name.  It is an error if no input file name is
    supplied.

  <output file name>

    When a command line option is encountered that does not start with a
    dash (-) it is assumed to be the output file name, if the input file
    name has already been set.  This form of specifying the output file
    name is for convenience, and does not work when the name starts with a
    dash.  The -OUT command line option works in all cases.  The default
    output file name is the generic leafname (no directory path, no file
    type suffix) of the input file.

  -IN <input file name>

    Explicitly set the input file name.  See the IMAGE_TYPES documentation
    file for a discussion of image file naming conventions.  There is no
    default input file name.  It is an error if no input file name is
    supplied.

  -OUT <output file name>

    Explicitly set the output file name.  See the IMAGE_TYPES
    documentation file for a discussion of image file naming conventions.
    The image file format can be selected by using a file type suffix.
    See the IMAGE_TYPES documentation file for details.  The default
    output file name is the generic leafname (no directory path, no file
    type suffix) of the input file.

  -UL x y

    Specifies the input image pixel that will be the upper left corner
    pixel of the output image.  The default is 0 0.

  -SIZE dx dy

    Sets the size in pixels of the rectangle to be written to the output
    image.  This is therefore also the output image size.  The default is
    to write to the right and lower edges of the input image.

  -COM <comment string>

    Add a comment to the image output file.  There may be any number of
    -COM command line options.  Note that the comment string must be
    enclosed in quoted ("") or apostrophies ('') if it contains any blanks
    or special characters.

    Image file comments can be viewed with the IMAGE_INFO program.

  -FTYPE <output file type>

    Explicitly set the output image file type.  See the IMAGE_TYPES
    documentation file for a list of the supported output image file
    types.  The -FTYPE argument is the image file type name, like "IMG",
    or "GIF".  The argument is case-insensitive, regardless of the file
    type suffix.  By default, the output image file type is derived from
    the output image file name if possible, else the IMG image file type
    is used.

  -FORM <format string>

    This allows additional configuration information to be passed to the
    output image file driver.  See the IMAGE_COPY program documentation
    file for a full description of the -FORM command line option.

The region copied from the input image is always clipped to the extent of
the input image, and must be at least 1 pixel in size.
