                           Program IMAGE_DITHER
                             24 October 2004

image_dither <input file name> [ options ]

Apply a dither pattern to the input image to create an output image. Both
the input and output images can be any of the supported image file
formats.  See the IMAGE_TYPES documentation file for details of the
supported formats.


                           Command Line Options

-OUT filename

  Specify the output image file name explicitly.  The default is a file in
  the working directory with the same generic name as the input file name.

-BITS r g b

  Indicate how many bits per color the final output image should have.
  Note that this is a subset of the more general -LEVELS command line
  option.  The -BITS command line option is mutually exclusive with the
  -LEVELS command line option.  The default levels per color can not be
  expressed with the -BITS option.

-LEVELS r g b

  Indicate how many actual levels per color the final output image should
  have.  This is not the apparent levels per color achieved by dithering,
  but the maximum actual levels for all output pixels for each color.  The
  -LEVELS command line option is mutually exclusive with the -BITS command
  line option.  The default is -LEVELS 6 7 6, which uses a total of 252
  possible red/green/blue combinations, and therefore fits into 8
  bits/pixel.

-PATT name

  Selects a pre-defined dither pattern.  The predefined dither patterns
  come from regular dither pattern files (defined below).  These files are
  in progs/image_dither within the software installation directory, and
  have names f_<name>.dith, where <name> stands for the argument entered
  after the -PATT command line option.  See the comment headers in these
  files for a description of each dither pattern and an explanation of its
  purpose.

  The default is DIAG5.  This pattern is a diagonally oriented halftone
  screen intended for printers where pixels overlap each other slightly.
  This pattern produces 50 apparent intensity levels when output pixels
  are either all full white or full black.  For printers with 300
  dots/inch, the halftone screen will be 42 dots/inch.  For 600 dpi
  printers, the halftone screen will be 85 dots/inch.  Typical newspaper
  halftone screens are usually around 75-85 dots/inch.

-PATT_FNAM filename

  Selects the dither pattern by explicitly giving its file name. The
  format of dither pattern files is explained below.  The default is a
  pre-defined dither pattern.   See the description for the -PATT command
  line option, above.


                        Dither Pattern File Format

Dither pattern files are regular text files that can be examined and
modified by normal text editors.  Blank lines are ignored, and "/*" starts
a end of line comment.  In other words, "/*" and all characters following
it on the same line are ignored.  All keywords are case-insentitive.
Tokens are delimited with blanks.  Redundant blanks are ignored.  Tokens
may be enclosed in matching quotes ("") or apostrophies ('').  This is
required if the token contains one or more blanks.

Dither pattern files contain commands, which may be followed by arguments.
Each command must start on a new line.  Commands must be completely
contained on one line, except as noted.  The valid commands are:

  SIZE nx ny

    Declares the dither pattern size in pixels.  The dither pattern will
    be a repeating array of tiles, each NX x NY pixels in size.  The top
    left pixel in the image will be aligned with the top left corner of
    the dither pattern.  This command must be present, and must preceed
    the THRESHOLDS command.

  RANGE_THRESH min max

    Declares the range of threshold values used in the THRESHOLDS command.
    The default is 0 to NX*NY (from the SIZE command).  If present, this
    command must preceed the THRESHOLDS command.

  LEVELS n

    Declares the number of distinct threshold levels.  This is used to
    determine the total number of apparent levels in the output image.
    The total apparent levels is (output levels per pixel - 1)*N + 1.  The
    default for N is NX*NY (from the SIZE command). If present, this
    command must preceed the THRESHOLDS command.

  THRESHOLDS

    Indicates the threshold values for each pixel in the dither pattern.
    When dithering any one pixel, a choice must be made between two
    possible adjacent output values.

    First, the bias value is computed, which indicates where the incoming
    pixel value falls within the range of the two possible output pixel
    value choices.  A bias value of 0.0 indicates that the incoming pixel
    value is exactly the same as the lower of the two output pixel value
    choices.   A value of 1.0 indicates it is the same as the higher of
    the two output choices.

    The bias value is then compared to the dither threshold value for that
    pixel.  The higher of the two possible output levels is chosen if the
    bias value meets or exceeds the threshold value. For purposes of this
    comparison, the threshold value is normalized to the 0.0 to 1.0 range,
    based on the MIN and MAX arguments to the RANGE_THRESH command.

    The threshold values are given on the lines following the THRESHOLDS
    command.  Each subsequent line corresponds to one row in the dither
    pattern.  Therefore, there must be NY lines following, each containing
    NX numbers.  (NX and NY come from the SIZE command.)

    For evenly spaced dither thresholds, the 0.0 to 1.0 normalized
    thresholds should start at 1/N (from the LEVELS command) and go to 1.
    For example, for a simple 2x2 dither pattern, the normalized
    thresholds would be .25, .5, .75, and 1.  An easy way to achieve this
    is for the RANGE_THRESH values to be 0 to the LEVELS value.  The
    threshold values are then just all the integers from 1 to the LEVELS
    value.

    The THRESHOLDS command must always be the last command in the dither
    pattern file.  It is an error if any non-comment lines follow the
    THRESHOLDS command.

For example dither pattern files, look in progs/image_dither within the
software installation directory.
