                           Program IMAGE_FLIP
                            24 October 2004
 image_flip [options]

This program can rotate an image multiples of 1/4 turn in either
direction.  It can also mirror flip the image top to bottom or left to
right.  The command line options are:

  <input file name>

    When a command line option is encountered that does not start with a
    dash (-) it is assumed to be the input file name, if the input file
    name has not already been set.  This form of specifying the input file
    name is for convenience, and does not work when the name starts with a
    dash.  The -IN command line option works in all cases.  There is no
    default input file name.  It is an error if no input file name is
    supplied.

  <output file name>

    When a command line option is encountered that does not start with a
    dash (-) it is assumed to be the output file name, if the input file
    name has already been set.  This form of specifying the output file
    name is for convenience, and does not work when the name starts with a
    dash.  The -OUT command line option works in all cases.  The default
    output file name is the generic leafname (no directory path, no file
    type suffix) of the input file.

  -IN <input file name>

    Explicitly set the input file name.  See the IMAGE_TYPES documentation
    file for a discussion of image file naming conventions.  There is no
    default input file name.  It is an error if no input file name is
    supplied.

  -OUT <output file name>

    Explicitly set the input file name.  See the IMAGE_TYPES documentation
    file for a discussion of image file naming conventions.  The image
    file format can be selected by using a file type suffix.  See the
    IMAGE_TYPES documentation file for details.  The default output file
    name is the generic leafname (no directory path, no file type suffix)
    of the input file.

  -FLIPLR

    Flip the image left-to-right.  This produces a mirror image. -FLIPLR
    is disabled by default.  Each -FLIPLR command line option toggles the
    -FLIPLR state.

  -FLIPUD

    Flip the image upside down.  Note that this is different from rotating
    the image upside down.  -FLIPUD produces an updside down image that is
    also mirror flipped.  -FLIPUD is disabled by default.  Each -FLIPUD
    command line option toggles the -FLIPUD state.

  -ROTR

    Rotate the image 1/4 turn (90 degrees) to the right after any flipping
    is applied.  -ROTR is disabled by default.  Each -ROTR command line
    option toggles the -ROTR state.

  -ROTL

    Rotate the image 1/4 turn to the left.  This is actually a convenience
    wrapper for -FLIPLR, -FLIPUD, and -ROTR.

  -ROTUD

    Rotate the image 1/2 turn.  This is actually a convenience wrapper for
    -FLIPLR and -FLIPUD.
