                           Program IMAGE_ANIM

image_anim [options]

This program packs multiple animation frames into one image file to create
an animated image file.  Note that this is not possible with all output
image formats.  The program aborts with error if an attempt is made to
write more frames to the output image file than is possible with the
output image file format (as supported by the driver).  The command line
options are:

  <output image file name>

    The first command line option that does not start with a dash (-) is
    assumed to be the output image file name, unless the output image file
    name has already been given by other means. See the -OUT command line
    option description.

  <input image file name>

    If a command line does not start with a dash (-) and the output image
    file name has already been given, then the command line option is
    assumed to be an input image file name.  See the -IN command line
    option description.

  -OUT <output image file name>

    Explicitly sets the name of the animated image file to produce. NOTE:
    Unlike most other Embed Inc imaging software, the default image file
    type is .GIF instead of .IMG.  This default is used when no
    recognizable image file type suffix is found on the file name.

  -IN <input image file name>

    Explicitly declares the next input frame(s) to add to the resulting
    animation.  The input file name has the normal syntax, except that the
    "#" character has a special meaning.  The "#" character expands to one
    or more sequential decimal integer digits, denoting an animation frame
    number or other sequence number.  The images will be added to the
    animation in ascending sequence number order.  There must not be more
    than one "#" character.  If present, it must appear in the leafname,
    not the directory name.

  -INLIST <file name>

    The indicated file contains a list of input images.  Each line of the
    list file must contain one image file name (# number wildcard is
    permitted).  Blank lines are ignored.

  -STDIN

    Indicate that a list of image files will be supplied via standard
    input.  The format of the standard input stream must be the same as
    that for an images list file as referenced by the -INLIST command line
    option.  The -STDIN option may be useful for shell script "here
    documents", or when running IMAGE_ANIM in a pipe where the previous
    program produces a list of input frames.  There should only be at most
    one -STDIN command line option.

  -LOOP

    Indicates that the animation is to be an infinite loop, as apposed to
    once-thru.  This is the default.

  -NLOOP

    Indicates that the animation is to be displayed only once.  The last
    frame is to be displayed after the animation completes. The default is
    -LOOP, above.

  -RATE <frame rate>

    Sets the desired frame rate for subsequent input frames.  The frame
    rate is measured in frames per second.  The initial setting is 10
    frames/second.  Note only input frames referenced on the command line
    after -RATE are effected by the new rate setting.

  -WAITF s

    Set the number of seconds the first frame should be displayed before
    starting the animation.  The default is that implied by the frame rate
    in effect for the first frame.

  -WAITL s

    Overrides the length of time in seconds the last frame should be
    displayed.  The default is that implied by the frame rate in effect
    for the last frame.

  -FORM <format string>

    The format string is passed directly to the image output file driver
    without interpretation.  The format string may be private to the
    driver, and therefore specific to a particular image file format.  See
    the -FORM command line option description to the IMAGE_COPY command.

  -ZOOM n

    Set the pixel replication integer zoom factor.  Input images will be
    enlarged by this factor before being stored in the output image file.
    The default is 1.

  -ALPHA

    Indicate that alpha values (opacity fractions) should be transferred
    from the input images to the animation frames if possible.  The
    default is to transfer only the red, green, and blue components.

  -NALPHA

    Indicate that alpha value (opacity fractions) should not be
    transferred from the input images to the animation frames if possible.
    This is the default.

Frames are added to the animation as they are encountered via the command
line options.

Some image file formats may not provide frame rate control, or control
over the display time of individual frames.  In those cases, arbitrary or
default values are silently substituted.  Note that display systems often
don't adhere to these value, even if they can be encoded into the animated
image file.

Some image file formats may not provide a means of specifying whether the
animation should loop or not.  In those cases, the -LOOP and -NLOOP
command line options are silently ignored.

All input images must be the same size in pixels.
